# AFFIRMATIONS - How to Use Affirmations to Manifest Your Desires
Updated on August 13, 2011

## Positive Affirmations and Manifesting Your Desires

Affirming is positively expressing in words, thoughts and beliefs what we honestly want, and who we wish to be in our lives. Affirmations are clear, positive thoughts, beliefs, words and phrases that affirm our true wants, wishes and desires. Affirmations and affirming is stating out-loud or writing down and claiming what you truly want - and affirming it. Each affirmation activates your intention and this begins to establish or manifest it into the physical realm.

Our affirmations enter our subconscious mind and have a profound effect on our emotions and feelings, our actions, our day to day activities and choices, and ultimately, our entire lives. Stating affirmations repeatedly allows the subconscious mind to hear and accept what we affirm to be fact. We unconsciously affirm all the time as we consistently repeat thoughts until they become anchored in our minds as imbedded beliefs. We make statements again and again until they become our reality.

Declaring and repeating positive affirmations is most powerful as these affirmations enter the subconscious mind to become part of our ‘programming’. The more emphasis and energy we put towards our affirmations, the more imbedded they become within our minds and belief system ... therefore, to manifest ‘positive’ into your life, you must positively affirm it.

Affirmations can be both positive and negative. Our subconscious minds do not discriminate or discern between a positive message or a negative one, but rather, accepts all information it is given. For example, if you negatively affirm and think about failing, refer to yourself as a failure and truly believe that you will fail, then you will actively self-sabotage yourself to ensure that you will fail - fulfilling your negative affirmation/s. If you have optimistm, faith and self-belief and positively affirm success, you will have higher expectations and will actively take positive action to bring your desired results to fruition ... ultimately manifesting success. If your subconscious mind believes that you want failure then you will receive it. If your subconscious mind believes that you want success, then that is what you will receive. What we believe and expect is what we will experience.

All of the words we choose to use, our attitudes and expectations, our thoughts and beliefs send out an energy and vibration to the Universe. Positive words, declarations and affirmations send out positive energies. Declaring and repeating positive affirmations helps to break negative habits, beliefs, thought-forms and mind-sets. Through the use of positive affirmations we are able to think ourselves into a more positive and optimistic frame of mind, we are able to improve personal self-love, we can become healthier, more vibrant, stronger, more patient, kinder to ourselves and others, more compassionate, wealthier ... the list can be endless. Positive affirmations help us to focus on and reinforce the positive aspects we wish to manifest, and assist us to change a fearful mind-set.

There is a logical, but often over-looked reason, why positive affirmations work. Affirmations are a direct communication with our ‘soul mind’. The ‘soul mind’ has eternal wisdom and knowledge, and always resonates with our soul’s truths. When we hear and declare positive affirmations it resonates with our soul and draws and manifests the energy back to us.

Ensure that your affirmations are positive, productive and life-enhancing, and stay clear and focused when repeating your positive affirmations in order to manifest your exact desires into reality. Declare your positive affirmations with faith, trust and determination and state your intentions with clarity and meaning. Most importantly, believe in them with your heart and soul.